>> Sarah Drasner: Let's go over to learn
about methods, computed and watchers.
So you heard me say earlier that one
of the reasons why I really love vue
is that I know immediately what
kind of thing that I'm looking at,
what kind of function, or
what kind of logic is going on.
Just by looking at some of the ways
that we're working with methods.
Methods computed in watchers are all
different ways of working with the data
that we've got available to us.
And I would say that, methods is
probably something that you're gonna use
a ton computed into something
that you're gonna use a lot.
And watchers is something you're
gonna use for special occasions.
So we're gonna have a big
emphasis on methods and computed.
Watchers will kind of go into more depth
of what view is in order to talk about.
So methods are kind of aptly named
because you saw that vue instance,
we're going to hang a function off of that
object and so that's called a method.
They're bound to the vue instance.
They're incredibly useful for
functions that you would like to access
in directives or use for
whatever you like.
This is a demo with two different
pieces of functionality.
They're not connected.
One of them is this counter and we have
up and we have down, and the reason why
I'm showing this is because previously,
let's actually go to the CodePen here.
Is because previously,
when we've looked at that add click event,
we were executing some
logic in ternary operator.
We don't have to do that
if we don't want to.
And let's, say we have a little
bit more functionality.
We might wanna say something like
increments and move the methods, if it's
a little bit more complicated, we can go
to our methods and we can say increment.
And we declare this over here and
we establish a relationship between
that click event and this method here.
And you can see what we're doing here,
is we're saying the counter is 0 and
when we need to access this we say,
this.counter.
That's gonna be true of anytime
you use any kind of methods,
anytime you use computed,
anytime you use watchers.
I personally like not needing to figure
out what this is referring [LAUGH] to.
I think that's really great.
So, I don't know if you guys
saw that tweet that was like.
I like working in JavaScript but
I keep wanting to yell out, [BLEEP] this.
But every time [LAUGH] I say that,
I don't know what I'm referencing this is.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Sarah Drasner: [LAUGH] So yeah,
this is really awesome.
For the reason we're binding
this to this data here,
we're not gonna use an arrow function for
declaring this method.
We can use arrow function inside of this.
So if I want to execute an a arrow
function in here that would be fine, but
we won't bind this properly if
we use a arrow function here.
So that's just something to watch out for.
So if you have a button that's a click
increment it's gonna call whatever
logic is going on in here.
We have decrement it's calling
whatever logic is going on in here, so
we can increment and decrement, okay.
I have another thing going on here which
you probably noticed, is that I'm moving
through all of these different colors,
as I'm moving my mouse across.
And we kind of played with
something similar to that earlier.
What we have here is,
we have an x that starts at 0, and
when I have this,
you wanna have this div id app,
I have an @mousemove and
I've connected that to xCoordinate.
If we go look at xCoordinate, you can
see I didn't have to pass in the event.
Remember I was mentioning this before,
I don't have to actually pass in the event
here, view will assume that that's
probably something I might
want access to if I need to.
So it offers me that param
if I need to use it.
So I still have to say e in this instance,
and
then I'm connecting this.x to
e.Clinetx and what that allows
me to do is connect this style binding
of the background color and an HSLA.
This is just a nerdy other thing but
if you need to use generative colors
in JavaScript, HSL is really,
really awesome because hue is rotating on
a 360 degree axis, so it will never fail.
780 is still a color,
whereas RGB will eventually fail.
So if you need to make generative colors,
that's a really fun and cool way to do it.
And then,
I just have my pixels across showing you
what is going on with x as
I'm moving across the page.